KNOWN ISSUES AND DEFERRED WORK

1. MIXED SAMPLING RATES PER CHANNEL ARE NOT SUPPORTED
   EDF permits each channel to have its own sampling rate. Files that
   use this (e.g. PhysioNet Sleep-EDF: EEG at 100 Hz alongside
   respiration and temperature at 1 Hz) are refused by the reader with
   a ValueError rather than ingested.

   Cause: MNE resamples slow channels onto a common grid. With
   preload=False the interpolation lacks context beyond each chunk, so
   the values returned depend on where chunk boundaries fall
   (mne-python issue #10635). Our writer chunks at 60 s while
   verification reads at 10 s, and the two disagreed by ~1800 units.

   Current behaviour: _reject_mixed_sampling_rates() in _readers_edf.py
   inspects the signal headers before opening the file and raises if the
   ordinary channels do not share one rate. Annotation channels are
   excluded from the comparison, since their samples-per-record is a
   byte budget for text rather than a sampling rate. Uniform-rate files
   are unaffected — with nothing to resample, MNE returns identical
   values regardless of chunk boundaries, which is why full
   sample-by-sample verification passes at zero error on those.

   Neither MNE mode is satisfactory:
     preload=False  edge artifacts at every chunk boundary
     preload=True   upsamples slow channels, inventing samples that
                    were never recorded, which breaks the lossless
                    guarantee in datamodule.txt

   Options to evaluate:
     a) Store each channel as its own dataset at its native rate.
        Fully lossless and still memory-safe: we already read EDF byte
        geometry directly for TAL parsing, so per-channel samples can
        be read at native rates without MNE resampling at all. Costs a
        schema addition and some downstream handling. Most promising.
     b) Detect mixed rates and refuse to ingest, with a clear error.
        Honest, but unhelpful for sleep studies.
     c) Ingest at the highest rate with preload=True and record the
        upsampling in /metadata. Rejected: preload=True risks the
        memory problem we designed the streaming writer to avoid, and
        more importantly it fabricates samples that were never
        recorded, which no amount of documentation makes lossless.

   Tests: TestRealEDF detects mixed rates and skips those files, and a
   separate test_mixed_rates_rejected asserts that ingesting one raises.
   The skip keeps the condition visible; the separate test pins the
   intended behaviour rather than merely tolerating the failure.
   Priority: Medium. Affects polysomnography data specifically;
   pure EEG recordings use a uniform rate.

2. EDF+D MEMORY WITH MANY LARGE SEGMENTS
   The discontinuous reader builds a list of all segments in memory
   before passing them to the schema writer. If a file has many
   large segments (e.g., 100 segments × 200 MB each), peak memory
   equals the total data size. Fix: write each segment to HDF5
   immediately after reading, then discard. Requires restructuring
   the reader-writer interface for the discontinuous case.
   Priority: Low (current test files work fine; only affects
   multi-GB discontinuous recordings with many segments).

3. TRUNCATED FILES ARE NOT DETECTED
   The EDF header states how many data records the file contains, and
   the signal headers state how large each record is. Together with the
   header size, that fully determines the expected file size:

       expected = header_size + n_records * record_size

   Nothing currently compares that against the actual size on disk, so
   a truncated file (interrupted download, disk full mid-write, partial
   copy) is read as though it were complete.

   Consequence: in the record loop in _parse_tals, reading past
   end-of-file returns fewer bytes or none. Those empties are skipped
   by the `if not tal` guard, so record_onsets ends up shorter than
   n_records and no error is raised. The result is fewer segments than
   the recording actually contains, silently.

   Two cheap checks worth adding together, both fail-fast in the same
   spirit as the mixed-rate guard:

     a) Size check. Compare expected against os.path.getsize() and
        raise if the file is short.
     b) Header cross-check. Offset 184 of the fixed header already
        holds the header size as a number. We compute it instead as
        256 + 256 * n_signals, which is the more robust choice since
        n_signals is load-bearing everywhere else. But reading 184 and
        comparing against the computed value costs nothing and catches
        a malformed header before any parsing happens.

   Priority: Low-Medium. No known instance yet, but the failure mode is
   silent, which is the kind we most want to eliminate.

   WHERE THESE CHECKS SHOULD LIVE — decided, not yet built.

   The readers should assume a compliant file and stay focused on the
   normal path. Validation belongs in _read_header, which already runs
   once per ingest and already parses every field the checks need, so
   each one is an `if` on data it is holding anyway. Keeping them
   together there also means they read as a single coherent "what makes
   this file valid" block rather than being sprinkled through the
   readers.

   Alongside that, a public function that reports problems without
   converting anything:

       problems = validate("recording.edf")

   Returning a LIST rather than raising on the first fault, so someone
   with 200 files learns everything wrong with each in one pass. This is
   the inspect() idea from item 5 and it is nearly free now that the
   header reader exists.

   ONE THING THAT MUST NOT BECOME OPTIONAL. There are two kinds of check
   here and only one can be opt-in:

     silent corruption — mixed sampling rates, several annotation
       channels. Skip these and you get a complete, plausible HDF5 whose
       samples were fabricated, or whose segment boundaries are in the
       wrong places. The file looks fine. These stay mandatory, because
       an optional check that nobody runs restores exactly the failure
       mode the guard was written to remove.

     loud failure — truncated files, missing annotation channel, header
       size cross-check. Skip these and you get a crash or an obviously
       wrong result, not a trusted archive that is quietly wrong. A crash
       is recoverable. These can be optional.

   Related check, same family: nothing verifies that the TAL walk
   produced one onset per record. If a record yields no parseable
   timestamp, the `continue` skips it and record_onsets ends up shorter
   than n_records, so _segment_boundaries computes ranges from fewer
   records than the file holds — again silently. One assertion closes
   it:

       if len(record_onsets) != n_records:
           raise ValueError(...)

   A spec-compliant file always has a time-keeping TAL in every record
   (spec 2.2.4), so this only fires on malformed input. Natural to add
   wherever the header validation from (a) and (b) lands.

4. CHANNEL UNITS ARE NOT READ FROM THE FILE
   _channel_units() derives the unit string from MNE's per-channel unit
   code rather than from the EDF header's physical dimension field.

   Measured on all three real test files: MNE assigns code 107
   (FIFF_UNIT_V) to every EDF channel regardless of what the header
   says, so the function always returns "V". Its other two branches
   cannot execute — 201 is FIFF_UNIT_T, tesla, which is MEG-only, and
   the else branch is unreachable because 107 is assigned universally.

   For every file we currently accept the answer is still correct.
   annotated.edf and discontinuous.EDF are all-uV in the header, MNE
   rescales uV to V, so the stored array genuinely is in volts. Correct
   by accident rather than by reasoning.

   The wrong case exists but is currently unreachable. sub1.edf has a
   "Temp rectal" channel whose physical dimension is DegC, plus two
   channels with a blank dimension. All three would be labelled "V".
   That file is refused by the mixed-rate guard, so the mislabel cannot
   reach HDF5 today.

   Same root cause as item 1: MNE normalizes away per-channel
   properties, and the EDF header holds the truth. Each signal header
   carries an 8-byte physical dimension field stating the unit as text.

   Decision required before fixing: should channel_units describe the
   units in the FILE, or the units of the ARRAY WE STORE? Those differ
   precisely because MNE rescales. Whichever is chosen must be stated
   in the docstring, since a downstream consumer reading "V" when the
   data is microvolts is a factor of a million.

   Do this together with item 1 option (a). Both need the same thing —
   per-channel facts read from the signal headers instead of inferred
   from MNE.

   CONSIDERED AND REJECTED FOR NOW, same family: replacing
   _sampling_rates(raw) with np.asarray(header.channel_rates).

   Tempting, because the header rates come from the file rather than
   MNE's single sfreq, and it would delete a function. Rejected because
   it trades away a safety property for no observable gain.

     - _sampling_rates derives its length from len(raw.ch_names), so the
       array is correct by construction however MNE builds that list.
     - header.channel_rates derives its length from our own filter,
       label != "EDF Annotations". Correct only while our filter and
       MNE's agree. They do on all three real files (81->80, 34->33,
       7->7), but that is three files, and a disagreement would leave
       /channels/sampling_rates a different length from /channels/names,
       silently breaking the parallel-array invariant.
     - the values are identical for every file we accept anyway, since
       MNE computes sfreq from the same header fields and the mixed-rate
       guard means there is only one rate.

   This is the 81-vs-80 index-space trap, and the change would be the
   first place the two spaces meet. It belongs with mixed-rate support,
   where raw.ch_names cannot describe a ragged recording and the header
   becomes the only usable source — so the alignment question has to be
   answered properly there regardless.

   Priority: Low while the guard blocks the only affected file, Medium
   once mixed-rate support lands, because that removes the guard and
   makes DegC channels ingestable.

5. INGEST IS SILENT DURING A MULTI-MINUTE OPERATION
   ingest() on a large file prints nothing while it works. A 645 MB
   EDF+D takes minutes, and a frozen terminal is indistinguishable from
   a hang. tqdm is already a declared dependency and the chunk loop in
   _write_continuous_signals is the natural place for a progress bar.

   Priority: Low technically, Medium for anyone who is not the author.

   Deliberately deferred, along with batch/directory ingestion,
   skip-existing behaviour for resumable batches, and an inspect()
   function that reads the header without converting. All are surface
   gaps rather than design problems. The inspect() one becomes nearly
   free once the Step 4 header reader exists.

6. THE READER CONTRACT IS NOT WRITTEN DOWN, AND READERS COPY EACH OTHER
   Every reader must return the same eight keys, and the dispatcher
   unpacks exactly those into write_hdf5:

       signals               MNE Raw, or list of arrays if discontinuous
       channel_names         list of str
       channel_units         list of str
       sampling_rates        np.ndarray, one per channel
       events                dict of onsets/durations/descriptions, or None
       metadata              dict written as HDF5 attributes
       discontinuous         bool
       segment_start_times   list of float, or None

   The EDF and BrainVision readers were written independently and both
   satisfy this, so the model works. Two things make adding a third
   format harder than it should be.

   First, nothing states the contract. _dispatcher.py says "write an
   isolated reader function, register it in the _EXTENSION_MAP" but never
   says what the function must return, so anyone adding .set has to
   reverse-engineer the eight keys from an existing reader. A TypedDict in
   _schema.py would fix this, since write_hdf5's parameters already are
   the contract. Readers then annotate -> RecordingData and a type checker
   catches a missing or misnamed key before runtime.

   Second, the readers already duplicate each other. _channel_units in the
   EDF reader and _extract_channel_units in the BrainVision reader are the
   same function under different names; the sampling-rate array is a
   helper in one and an inline np.full in the other; events and metadata
   construction are near-identical. A third format copies all of it again.

   The line to draw:

     SHARED      anything translating a library's view into our contract —
                 channel units, events dict, metadata dict, rate arrays.
                 Format-agnostic by nature.
     PER-FORMAT  anything about the input format itself — EDF's byte
                 offsets, records and TALs; BrainVision's tri-file
                 resolution. These stay isolated so one format's quirks
                 cannot leak into another.

   That preserves what "isolated reader" actually protects while removing
   duplication that has no reason to exist. With those helpers shared, a
   .set reader becomes roughly: open with MNE, call four helpers, return
   the dict.

   Note the EdfHeader dataclass is deliberately NOT shareable. It parses
   EDF byte offsets, and BrainVision's header is a text file MNE reads in
   full. There is no common header concept to abstract, and inventing one
   would impose a shape neither format has.

   Priority: Medium. Nothing is broken, but this is the difference between
   adding a format being a bounded task and being an exercise in
   archaeology.

7. AN UNRECOGNISED UNIT CODE IS RECORDED AS MICROVOLTS
   _channel_units and _extract_channel_units both end with:

       else:
           units.append("uV")

   That branch does not run today, since MNE reports volts for every
   channel of every format we read. But it cannot simply be deleted: with
   no fallback the returned list would be shorter than the channel count,
   which breaks the rule that names, units, rates and signal rows are all
   the same length and in the same order.

   So the fallback has to exist, and "uV" is a fabricated answer — it
   claims a unit rather than admitting none was recognised. Fixing it
   means deciding how the schema represents an unknown unit, which is
   part of item 4 rather than separate from it.

   Priority: Low, and inseparable from item 4.

8. AN ANNOTATIONS-ONLY EDF+D FILE WOULD RAISE TypeError
   EDF+ permits a file with no ordinary signals at all, where the
   annotation channel carries everything and the first TAL of each record
   names the event defining that record's start time (EDF+
   specification, section 2.2.4).

   Such a file has no ordinary channels, so channel_samples_per_record is
   None, and _segment_boundaries would evaluate

       segment_start_record * None

   raising TypeError rather than anything informative.

   This was noticed while making _segment_boundaries use the header's
   exact sample count, and deliberately not guarded at the time: adding a
   branch for a case with no test file and no known instance is the kind
   of defensive code that obscures the normal path. Recording it instead.

   Unverified: MNE may well fail on such a file before our code is
   reached, since raw.ch_names would be empty. Nobody has checked, so it
   should not be assumed.

   Priority: Low. Legal per the specification, degenerate in practice,
   and it fails loudly rather than producing wrong output.
